.TH GRACE 1
.LO 1
.SH NAME
grace \- command line interface
.br
xmgrace \- full-featured GUI mode
.br
gracebat \- batch mode \- print and exit

.SH DESCRIPTION
Grace is a WYSIWYG tool to make two-dimensional plots of scientific
data.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grace
.RI "[ " option " | " filename " ]..."
.br
.B xmgrace
.RI "[ " option " | " filename " ]..."
.br
.B gracebat
.RI "[ " option " | " filename " ]..."

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-autoscale" "x|y|xy|none"
Set autoscale type
.TP
.BI "\-barebones "
Turn off all toolbars
.TP
.BI "\-batch "    "file"
Execute batch
.I file
on start up
.TP
.BI "\-block "    "file"               
Assume the data
.I file
is block data
.TP
.B "\-bxy"       "x:y:etc."
Form a set from the current block data set using the current set type
from columns given in the argument
.TP
.BI "\-datehint "    "iso|european|us|days|seconds|nohint"              
Set the hint for dates analysis
.TP
.BI "\-dpipe "    "descriptor"               
Read data from descriptor on startup
.TP
.BI "\-fixed "    "width height"           
Set canvas size fixed to width*height
.TP
.B -free                                 
Use free page layout
.TP
.BI "\-graph "     "number"             
Set the current graph number
.TP
.BI "\-graphtype " "type"               
Set the type of the current graph
.TP
.B -hardcopy
No interactive session, just print and quit
.TP
.BI "\-hdevice "   "device_name"     
Set default hardcopy device
.TP
.B -install
Install private colormap
.TP
.B -legend    load
Turn the graph legend on
.TP
.B -log       x|y|xy 
Set the axis scaling of the current graph to logarithmic
.TP
.B -mono                                 
Run grace in monochrome mode (affects the display only)
.TP
.BI "\-netcdf "  "file"
Assume data file is in netCDF format. This option is present
only if the netCDF support was compiled in
.TP
.BI "\-netcdfxy " "X_var Y_var"
If -netcdf was used previously, read from the netCDF file
X_var and Y_var variables and create a set.
If X_var is "null" then load the index of Y to X.
This option is present only if the netCDF support was compiled in
.TP
.B -noask
Assume the answer is yes to all requests, if the operation would overwrite
a file, grace will do so without prompting
.TP
.B -noinstall                            
Don't use private colormap
.TP
.B -noprint                              
In batch mode, do not print
.TP
.B -nosigcatch                           
Don't catch signals
.TP
.BI "\-npipe "     "file"                     
Read data from named pipe on startup
.TP
.BI "\-nxy "       "file"
Assume data file is in X Y1 Y2 Y3 ...  format
.TP
.BI "\-param "     "file"
Load parameters from 
.I file
to the current graph
.TP
.BI "\-pexec "    "string"         
Interpret string as a parameter setting
.TP
.B -pipe
Read data from stdin on startup
.TP
.BI "\-printfile " "file" 
Save print output to 
.I file 
.TP
.BI "\-results "  "file"             
Write results of some data manipulations to 
.I file
.TP
.B -rvideo
Exchange the color indices for black and white
.TP
.BI "\-saveall "  "file"
Save all to 
.I file
.TP
.BI "\-seed "     "value"               
Integer seed for random number generator
.TP
.B -source    disk|pipe                
Source type of next data file
.TP
.BI "\-timer "    "delay"                    
Set allowed time slice for real time inputs to
.I delay
ms
.TP
.B -timestamp                            
Add timestamp to plot
.TP
.B -settype   xy|xydx|...              
Set the type of the next data file
.TP
.B -version                             
Show the program version and exit
.TP
.BI "\-viewport " "xmin ymin xmax ymax"      
Set the viewport for the current graph
.TP
.BI "\-wd "       "path"                
Set the working directory
.TP
.BI "\-world "    "xmin ymin xmax ymax"
Set the world coordinates for the current graph
.TP
.B -usage|-help
This message


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GRACE_HOME
Specifies the directory where the Grace docs and libs are stored. Default is
.BR /usr/local/grace
.TP
.B GRACE_HELPVIEWER
Specifies the browser which is used to display the Grace HTML help pages.
Default is
.BR netscape
.TP
.B GRACE_EDITOR
Specifies the editor which is used to edit sets. Default is 
.B xterm \-e vi
.TP
.B GRACE_PRINT_CMD
The print command.
.TP
.B GRACE_FFTW_RAM_WISDOM
and
.B GRACE_FFTW_WISDOM_FILE
A flag (0 or 1) and a file name which determine whether a FFT should use 
`wisdom' when using the FFTW libraries.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
grconvert(1)

.SH HOME PAGE
http://plasma-gate.weizmann.ac.il/Grace/

.SH BUGS
The best way to submit a bug report is using the "Help/Comments" menu entry.
Alternatively, see the home page.

.SH AUTHORS
.B Grace
is derived from 
.B ACE/gr
(a.k.a
.B Xmgr
) written by Paul J Turner. From version number 4.00, the development was taken
over by a team of volunteers under the coordination of Evgeny Stambulchik.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1991-1995 Paul J Turner, Portland, OR
.br
Copyright (c) 1996-2001 Grace Development Team

.SH LICENSE
The program is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
